# Aether
Aether : hybrid car. Aether is my hybrid car concept designed to explore innovative ways of combining quantum sensors and nano sensors with modern mechatronics. this repository includes the concept for this project and also the early development idea for my project.  this repository shows my process of building a smarter, more efficient vehicles.
##About this project                                                                                                                                Aether is a project i designed which is focused on designing a hybrid car system with smart features like dual driving modes and advanced sensors. The goal is to improve efficiency, safety, and performance in future vehicles. This project explores how combining different technologies can create a more adaptable and eco friendly driving experience. The reason behind me designing such a project is to bridge the gap between humans and artifial intelligence. The desired balance is aquired by bridging the gap with the cocepts that have been researched previously but have not been frequently used in the automobile industry. The concepts that help us align with the the goal are as follows:-                                       
1. adaptive control                                                                                                                                2. Modular design                                                                                                                                  3. Regenerative technology                                                                                                                         4. Quantum sensors and nanosensors                                                                                                                 5. Driver centric interface
6. Dual-Mode Hybrid Drive System
##Key features                                                                                                                                     1. Dual Driving Mode (Manual and automated)                                                                                                        2. Redundancy System                                                                                                                              3. Transition Logic Unit                                                                                                                           4. Quantum sensors
## Dual Driving Mode ##                                                                                                                            The dual driving system is provided with two distinct modes, they are:-                                                                            1. Manual driving mode                                                                                                                             2. Automated driving mode                                                                                                                          This key feature replaces the usual mechanical linkages with modern and electronic control. This helps out with most of the issues when it comes to transition of manual mode to automated and vice versa. This key feature allows all the car controls tobe driven in hands of the of the human and also like AI. This key feature help out during ccertein situations where the driver may or may not respond on time. It takes a human about 3 to 7 seconds to assess the situation and then react while the ai system takes control of the situation despite the mode not being set to aautonomous driving mode. This helps immense with the coordination between the humans and artificial intelligence. This happens with the help of the onboard decision making system that responds to human comands and also the can take charge in certain situations. It is going to be cosidered the brain of the car. This operating system is responsible for learning the driving pattern of the driver and hence adjusts itself to the drivering skills of the driver.                                                                   
This system is also capable of predicting and avoiding any possible accidents that may occur on the road, it is capable of predetermining the accidents that may occur and is able to avoid it thanks to the operating system being able to make a quick last minute decision. It is also responsible for the overall security of the car.
## An automatic feedback system                                                                                                                    1. Location on the tail                                                                                                                            2. Allows room for correction and improvement                                                                                                      3. Has 3 kinds of feedback systems                                                                                                                      i. Driver feedback system                                                                                                                         ii. Vehicle feedback system                                                                                                                       iii. AI feedback system                                                                                                                        
## Redundancy Systems                                                                                                                              It is responsible for all the independent steering, working and overall function of the car. It is responsible for all safety measures and protocols taken up by the car's AI system. It launches all the safety measures after the code has been generated by the operating systems. During and emergency situation, the connections are cut off and the circuits are disconnected to decrease the risk. Manages situations involving system failure without complete steering lose. If any system failure occurs, the other sensors output integrate and give a combined output.                                                             
The most important redundancy in aether has to be that the  car uses the 2N back systems. Here N simply represents the unit you wish to duplicate. 
There are 2 types of Data Center redundancy system:- 
1. N + 1
2. 2 N 
Here N+1 indicates an additional component added to support a single failure or required maintenance on a component. Design standards typically call for 1 extra unit for every 4 needed. So if you have, say, 8 UPS units, then you should at least have 10 total UPS units.
While 2N refers to a fully redundant, mirrored system with two independent distribution systems. They are not connected in any way and are not dependent on each other. This means that even if one power source has an interruption or loss of power, the other should still supply power and accommodate full load, thereby eliminating any potential downtime from the loss of one side or leg of the system
 
The very difference between N+1 and 2N is that in N+1 only one part in the entire system has a spare part ready. That can prove to be extremely disadvantageous during certain situations where there is a part failure. It can result in the breakdown of the entire system in turn effecting the entire car. My reason for using 2N system back up is to ensure the back up of every part of the system whhich avoids all kinds of mechanical failures that may occur during the damage of any one part of the entire system.                                                                                        
##Transition logic Unit##
This part of the car is the most critical and tricky part. This part takes up the responsiblity of the safety of the systems and circuits during the converstion of the driving system from one mode to the other irrespective of which mode is it. It does this by ensuring that the conversition goes as smoothly as possible.                                                                                                                      1. It cooridinates the handoff between the internal combustion engine (ICE) and engine motor so that the driver does not feel a jolt.              2. Prevents the torque spikes during the switching of the gears or when the modes are changed.                                                     3. Interprets the requests of driver like accelerator, brake, driver mode switch and translates them into safe, efficient transitions.             4. Matches speeds between motor, engine, and transmission before engagement so that there is no kind of load on the tires, spike in the torque which in turn prevents the wheels from slipping.      

## Quantum Sensors ##
The role of the quantum sensors in my project is simple. They are simply the extension of all the classic sensors, meaning they will remain dormant unless triggered by the operating system. Although the concepts of quantum mecahnics and its use in terms of ssensors has not been widely researched about yet, I strongly believe that it can made use of in the car by integrating quantum sensors with the classic sensors that are used on regular bases in a hybrid car. That will help the system detect and act with even better precision than what has already been achieved. It helps the data be a lot more reliable than that of usual. This prove to be a massive advantage during situations where the classic sensors are not able to gather data from the surroundings. Below is an example of the what I have been trying to explain about the use of Quantum sensors:-

.) We are all familiar with the drawbacks of the GPS/IMU systems used in the navigation systems of he electric or simply the modern car being manufactured at present. The navigation system, specifcally the GPS/IMU systems, face difficulty as they climb in altitude. That makes it hard to navigate the path in certain places, such as area having hills and mountains. But when take aircrafts into reference, we notice that although they gain altitude they do not have an issue with the navigation system. That is because an airplane does not only rely on the GPS/IMU system alone. They also rely on instrumesnts like:-
   1) Baromteric Altimeter ( measures the altitude by calculating the air pressure at the moment with the standard atmospheric pressure)
   2) Radar altimeter ( measures the altitude from absolute altitude above ground level by bouncing off radio waves from the surface of earth and keep a count on the time it takes to reach back)
   3) Vertical Velocity Indicator ( shows off rate of ascend or descent derived from pressure over time)
Although we are unable to make much use of the radar altimeter, we can use barometeric altimeter and a vertical velocity indicator with the help of a quantum gravimter to fix this issue with the GPS/IMU systems.
